Add IntersectionObserver v2 article (#7245)
google/WebFundamentals: src/content/en/updates/2019/02/intersectionobserver-v2.md

project_path: /web/_project.yaml
book_path: /web/updates/_book.yaml
description: Augment IntersectionObserver to report information about occlusion and visual effects.

{# wf_updated_on: 2019-02-11 #}
{# wf_published_on: 2019-02-06 #}
{# wf_tags: intersectionobserver #}
{# wf_featured_image: /web/updates/images/generic/timeline.png #}
{# wf_featured_snippet: Lorem ipsum. #}
{# wf_blink_components: Blink>Layout #}

# Trust is Good, Observation is Better—Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 {: .page-title}

{% include "web/_shared/contributors/thomassteiner.html" %}

<div class="clearfix"></div>

> Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is one of these APIs that's probably universally loved, and, now that

Reviewer: "one of these APIs" reads a little oddly for American English. I'd suggest changing it to "one of those APIs".

> Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is one of these APIs that's probably universally loved, and, now that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is one of those APIs that's probably universally loved, and, now that
```

"one of *these* APIs" reads a little oddly in American English. I'd suggest changing it to "one of *those* APIs".

Author: Edited, thanks.

[Safari supports it](https://webkit.org/blog/8582/intersectionobserver-in-webkit/) as well,
it's also finally universally usable in all major browsers. For a quick refresher of the API,
I recommend watching [Surma](../../../resources/contributors/surma)'s
[Supercharged Microtip](https://www.youtube.com/embed/kW_atFXMG98) on Intersection
Observer&nbsp;v1—also embedded below for your viewing pleasure—or reading Surma's in-depth
[article](../../2016/04/intersectionobserver).

> People have used Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 for a wide range of use cases, like, for example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
People have used Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 for a wide range of use cases like
```

"like, for example," is very conversational but a bit awkward in writing. Recommend simply removing "for example,"

Author: Edited, thanks!

[lazy loading of images and videos](../../../fundamentals/performance/lazy-loading-guidance/images-and-video/),
[being notified when elements reach `position: sticky`](../../2017/09/sticky-headers),
[fire analytics events](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-analytics/0.1/visibility-manager.js),
and many more.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kW_atFXMG98" frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

For the full details, check out the
[Intersection Observer docs on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API),
but as a short reminder, this is what the Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API looks like in the most
basic case:

```javascript
const onIntersection = (entries) => {
  entries.forEach((entry) => {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      console.log(entry);
    }
  });
};

const observer = new IntersectionObserver(onIntersection);
observer.observe(document.querySelector('#some-target'));
```

## What's challenging with Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1?

> Let's get this straight: there's nothing wrong with Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1, yet there are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be clear, Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is great but it's not perfect. There are
```

Take-it-or-leave-it suggestion. If there was nothing wrong with IOv1 then we'd have no need for V2. It's a good API but misses features for some really important use cases. Also, "let's get this straight" sounds argumentative; as if someone came into the room bad-mouthing IOv1 and you're going to get in their face to defend your beloved API.

Author: Edited, thanks.

element as a human being would define it.
By setting an option in the
[`IntersectionObserver` constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserver/IntersectionObserver),
intersecting
[`IntersectionObserverEntry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserverEntry)s
(pardon the wrong plural ending here) will then contain a new boolean field named `isVisible`.
A `true` value for `isVisible` is a strong guarantee from the underlying implementation
that the target element is completely unoccluded by other content
and has no visual effects applied that would alter or distort its display on screen.
In contrast, a `false` value means that the implementation cannot make that guarantee.

An important detail of the spec is that the implementation is permitted to report false negatives
(that is, setting `isVisible` to `false` even when the target element is completely visible and
unmodified), but it may never report a false positive.
For performance or other reasons, an implementation may use an algorithm which is not 100% accurate,
as long as all inaccuracies are false negatives.

> ## How does the new code look like in practice?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does the new code look like in practice?
```

"How does … look like" reads oddly in American English. It would be more natural to say "What does … look like" or "How does … look". FWIW I think the language is evolving here. In time it may become as normal as the other suggestions I mentioned. For the moment, though, I think we're safer with a different construction.

Author: Edited, thanks.

and many more.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kW_atFXMG98" frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

For the full details, check out the
[Intersection Observer docs on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API),
but as a short reminder, this is what the Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API looks like in the most
basic case:

```js
const onIntersection = (entries) => {
  entries.forEach((entry) => {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      console.log(entry);
    }
  });
};

const observer = new IntersectionObserver(onIntersection);
observer.observe(document.querySelector('#some-target'));
```

## What's challenging with Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1?

To be clear, Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is great, but it's not perfect. There are
some corner cases where the API falls short. Let's have a closer look!
The Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API can perfectly tell you when an element is scrolled into the
window's viewport, but it *doesn't* tell you whether the element is covered

> by any other page content (that is, when the element is "occluded") or whether

Reviewer 2: Dunno if occluded needs to be in scare-quotes

Author: Agreed. This part came mostly from the Explainer.

[Supercharged Microtip](https://www.youtube.com/embed/kW_atFXMG98) on Intersection
Observer&nbsp;v1—also embedded below for your viewing pleasure—or reading Surma's in-depth
[article](../../2016/04/intersectionobserver).
People have used Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 for a wide range of use cases like
[lazy loading of images and videos](../../../fundamentals/performance/lazy-loading-guidance/images-and-video/),
[being notified when elements reach `position: sticky`](../../2017/09/sticky-headers),
[fire analytics events](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-analytics/0.1/visibility-manager.js),
and many more.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kW_atFXMG98" frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

For the full details, check out the
[Intersection Observer docs on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API),
but as a short reminder, this is what the Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API looks like in the most
basic case:

```js
const onIntersection = (entries) => {

>   entries.forEach((entry) => {

Reviewer 3: Have you considered using `for`-`of` here? It's more flexible than `forEach` (for example, it enables `break`ing early).

completely transparent when you (pretendedly involuntarily) clicked it.

<img src="../../images/2019/02/trick-ad-click.png" alt="Tricking a user into clicking an ad by
    styling it transparent and overlaying it on top of something attractive"
    intrinsicsize="1000x666">

## How does Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 fix this?

Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 introduces the concept of tracking the actual "visibility" of a target
element as a human being would define it.
By setting an option in the
[`IntersectionObserver` constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserver/IntersectionObserver),
intersecting
[`IntersectionObserverEntry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserverEntry)s
(pardon the wrong plural ending here) will then contain a new boolean field named `isVisible`.
A `true` value for `isVisible` is a strong guarantee from the underlying implementation
that the target element is completely unoccluded by other content
and has no visual effects applied that would alter or distort its display on screen.
In contrast, a `false` value means that the implementation cannot make that guarantee.

> An important detail of the

Reviewer 4: This paragraph needs to be rephrased. Mozilla has brought up some legitimate concerns about how the permissiveness around false negatives is at odds with interoperability.

There are two things we should emphasize:

1. Implementations should limit themselves to working with bounding boxes and rectilinear geometry; they shouldn't try to achieve pixel-perfect results for, e.g., corner-radius.

2. That said, no false positives are permitted under any circumstances.

Author: I assume you mean `border-radius` here. I rephrased the paragraph accordingly.

[spec](https://w3c.github.io/IntersectionObserver/v2/#calculate-visibility-algo)
is that the implementation *is permitted* to report false negatives
(that is, setting `isVisible` to `false` even when the target element is completely visible and
unmodified), but it *may never* report a false positive.
For performance or other reasons, an implementation may use an algorithm which is not 100% accurate,
as long as all inaccuracies are false negatives.

> 

Reviewer 4: I'd like to see a section here titled something like "Caveats" or "Warning!"

The new section should **emphasize** that visibility is much more expensive to compute than intersection. For that reason, V2 is not intended to be used broadly in the way that V1 is; it is focused on combatting fraud. V2 functionality should be used only when V1 functionality is truly insufficient.

Author: I'm adding a big, red warning box.

## What does the new code look like in practice?

The `IntersectionObserver` constructor now takes two additional configuration properties: `delay`
and `trackVisibility`.

> The `delay` is a number indicating the minimum delay in milliseconds between notifications from

Reviewer 4: It's important to include here that when 'trackVisibility' is true, 'delay' is required to be at least 100 (i.e., no more than one notification every 100ms). Visibility is expensive to calculate, and this requirement is a precaution against performance degradation (and battery consumption). The responsible developer will use the **largest value possible** for delay.

Author: Added.

logic in action in the second section of the [demo](https://trick-ad-click.glitch.me/)
(but now, try "watching" the 🐶 puppy video). Be sure to activate "trick mode" again to immediately
convert yourself into a shady publisher and see how Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 prevents
non-legitimate ad clicks from being tracked.
This time, Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 has our back! 🎉

Note: Different from typical lazy-loading code, if you use Intersection Observer to prevent this
kind of clickjacking attacks, you *must not* `unobserve` the element after the first intersection.

<img src="../../images/2019/02/intersectionobserver-v2.png"
    alt="Intersection Observer v2 preventing an unintended click on an ad."
    intrinsicsize="612x876">

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<!-- This is the ad running in the iframe -->
<button id="callToActionButton">Buy now!</button>
```

```js
// This is code running in the iframe.

// The iframe must be visible for at least 800ms prior to an input event
// for the input event to be considered valid.
const minimumVisibleDuration = 800;

// Keep track of when the button transitioned to a visible state.
let visibleSince = 0;

> let button = document.getElementById('callToActionButton');

Reviewer 3: `s/let/const/` per Google JS style guide

button.addEventListener('click', (event) => {

>   if (visibleSince && performance.now() - visibleSince >= minimumVisibleDuration) {

Reviewer 3: More explicit: `if (visibleSince > 0 && ...` (avoids an implicit `ToBoolean`)

    trackAdClick();
  } else {
    rejectAdClick();
  }
});

> let observer = new IntersectionObserver((changes) => {

Reviewer 3: `s/let/const/` per Google JS style guide

>   changes.forEach(change => {

Reviewer 3: `for`-`of`?

    // ⚠️ Feature detection
    if (typeof change.isVisible === 'undefined') {
      // The browser doesn't support Intersection Observer v2, falling back to v1 behavior.
      change.isVisible = true;
    }

    if (change.isIntersecting && change.isVisible) {
      visibleSince = change.time;
    } else {
      visibleSince = 0;
    }
  });
}, {
  threshold: [1.0],
  // 🆕 Track the actual visibility of the element
  trackVisibility: true,
  // 🆕 Set a minimum delay between notification
  delay: 100
}));

// Require that the entire iframe be visible.

> observer.observe(document.getElementById('ad'));

Reviewer 3: `document.querySelector('#ad')`
